# macOS &lt;bits/stdc++.h&gt;

## Support for &lt;bits/stdc++.h&gt; in macOS

macOS ships by default with the LLVM/Clang compiler which does not
support GNU/GCC extensions such as the `bits/stdc++.h` header file that
every beginner tends to use in their C++ code.

This is a problem even when you use g++ in macOS, as Apple use g++ as a
front-end to clang++ for legacy reasons.

## Solution

1.  You need to create a directory ‘bits’ under the folder
    /usr/local/include. This can be done by running the following
    command in the Terminal:

    ``` bash
    mkdir /usr/local/include/bits
    ```

2.  You need to copy the contents of the
    [stdc++.h](../blob/master/stdc++.h) file included in this repository
    into the newly created bits folder:

    ``` bash
    curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/khaveesh/macOS-stdc.h/master/stdc%2B%2B.h > /usr/local/include/bits/stdc++.h
    ```

3.  Profit! You can now write:

    ``` cpp
    #include <bits/stdc++.h>
    ```

## Recommendation

There is a reason why Apple (Clang) and even Microsoft (Visual C++) do
not include this header file in their compilers. **It’s really bad
coding practice to include this file**.

### Explanation

bits/stdc++.h is a non-standard header file containing a list of
***all*** header files available in the GCC stdc++ library. Everyone who
has written at least a moderately complex program in C++, knows how much
of a pain-in-the-a\*\* it is, to find the appropriate header file for
all the builtins used. So it is an easier way out to just include
bits/stdc++.h. But this means that all header files regardless of
whether you’re using them or not, are included in your code. This
increases the compilation time of your code. This is especially
detrimental in ***Competitive Programming*** where coders usually change
one or two lines at max and frequently recompile when debugging. Thus
this delay in compilation adds up. So it is better to spend some time to
analyse which functions you’re using and include only the minimal number
of required header files.

## TL;DR

Copy and paste the following commands in your Mac terminal:

1.  `mkdir /usr/local/include/bits`

2.  `curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/khaveesh/macOS-stdc.h/master/stdc%2B%2B.h > /usr/local/include/bits/stdc++.h`

**But this is bad coding practice and you should consider this only as a
stopgap solution and refrain from using it.**

## Source

The stdc++.h file is derived from the **latest** stdc++.h file in the
[GCC git
repository](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gcc-mirror/gcc/master/libstdc%2B%2B-v3/include/precompiled/stdc%2B%2B.h)
with the non-Mac include directives removed.

## License: GPLv3

**Fun Fact**: This license was one of the primary reasons why Apple
decided to fund the fledgling LLVM Compiler team in the University of
Illinois. Read [Apple’s Great GPL
Purge](http://meta.ath0.com/2012/02/05/apples-great-gpl-purge/) to know
more.
